how are you everyone my name is my
quorum dashed and today on this episode
of crucible school we're going to be
talking about a little thing called tilt
now what the hell is tilt you might be
asking if you've never heard the term
before tilt is the emotional response
you feel when you are outplayed you are
behind when you are losing or when
things just aren't going your way in a
competitive game if left unchecked tilt
can put you in a very negative mental
state it can also affect your play for
you severely an example of tilt would be
you are playing a rumble game when
there's a guy blink shotgunning over and
over and over and killing you over and
over and you start to feel annoyed you
start to feel like the game is against
you you feel like you can't win and what
happens is your response to that is now
how do I turn this around I want to fix
this I want to win I want to beat this
guy I want to kill that guy and what
causes what this causes is you begin to
rush you start trying to force plays so
that you can turn it around see with
tilt it's a very tricky situation you
get on tilt from being behind the other
players by losing and to fix tilt you
need to win or get that kill or do
something to turn it around since you do
get that kill you feel great
things are going back your way you're
happy but the unfortunate reality of
tilt is there's kind of two two things
about it there is the instant
gratification of yep I got a kill I've
turned it around and then there's the
true emotional side the true mental
strength side of it that is kind of a
make-or-break thing with with a lot of
players if you're able to turn our game
around by getting that kill and you feel
good that's a very short-term fix it's a
very quick you know quencher of thirst
but in the long you know the big scheme
of things if you aren't able to be
mentally strong and say it's okay I'm
doing fine I'm you know I'm going to get
back in the game you're going to be in a
vicious cycle of tilt over and over and
over
as soon as you get behind you will be
back on tilt you need to stop the
problem you know at its root so you
might be questioning now well how do I
do that and unfortunately it's a very
tough answer everyone's gonna react
differently to tilt everyone's gonna
have a different mental state myself I
do get very negative I'll be playing
with some friends and things aren't
going my way I get shotgun one too many
times and I start throwing f-bombs and I
start getting fucking annoyed that's as
simple as it is I I'm one of those
players that I get flustered and it
affects my play so you know as I've aged
it's gotten a little bit better when I
played hockey
I was I was salty I was very salty if
things weren't going my way in hockey
I'd be the kid that you know sometimes I
slam my stick and I'd be a little bitch
about it and it was never good it's it's
really cancerous and it affects your
game so negatively it's the same thing
in destiny if you're always swearing
you're always mad you're always going to
be feeling behind you always going to be
doing worse than you could be if you're
in a positive state and if you're in a
situation where you recognize I can't do
it I can't be positive like I can't
cheer up then one of the things I found
that really helps us is playing with
other really positive players my friend
Kevin and mana Gator KJ Hovey and the
mana Gator if you will they're both very
positive players they don't get salty
ever and so when I do get into what I
get pissed off when we're playing a
competitive game there are always the
guys that you say it's okay
things are fine you're doing okay and
they don't accelerate the tilt they help
slow it down if you have talks of toxic
players on your team if even if they're
your best buddies but they keep
nitpicking at your mistakes or they keep
doing it it's just going to accelerate
the issue you need someone who's going
to be able to view beside you say it's
alright we've got this and help calm you
down especially if you don't feel
extremely confident dealing with the
situation yourself it's I mean it is a
convoluted little topic is there's not a
set in stone answer unfortunately but if
I have one last little bit of advice is
this game is
for fun I know plain trials going nine
and O is huge but if you're throwing
your controller at the screen because of
you know things not going your way
you're not having fun then put it down
for a bit relax and then come back in a
bit just take a little break get off
tilt go knit or do something and come
back to the game when you're enjoying it
when you can have some fun with your
friends and not only will you feel
better but you will play better too tilt
is an emotional thing but it really does
affect you or your mechanical game play
a lot so thanks for listening if you
have any questions concerns you want a
different topic for Crucible school let
me know I'm here to help
thanks so much and see you later bye-bye